North Carolina's coastal communities began feeling the wrath of Hurricane Florence on Thursday, a storm that could be the worst to hit the region in a generation. The assault of wind and rain is expected to last through the weekend and well into next week. The storm is packing powerful winds of up to 90 miles per hour as it approaches the coast, driving a storm surge that could reach 11 feet in places. Inland residents are bracing for rainfall that is being forecast in feet, not inches, with the potential for catastrophic flash flooding.  Here are the latest developments:

The center of the storm was about 30 miles east of Wilmington, N.C., at 4 a.m. Friday, with tropical-storm-force winds spreading across the Outer Banks and the southeastern coast of North Carolina. The National Hurricane Center said the storm, which has begun to slow and is now a Category 1 hurricane, was likely to maintain its intensity until its eye made landfall early Friday. The cloud coverage from the storm, an indication of its size, is as large as the Carolinas. The storm is forecast to crawl inland, drenching a wide area with extremely heavy rains — 20, 30 or even 40 inches of rainfall are predicted in some spots on the Carolina coast. Places as far inland as Charlotte, about 150 miles from the coast, could receive more than 10 inches of rain. Learn more about why slow-moving hurricanes are so dangerous.

More than 180,000 people are already without power in North Carolina, state officials said, and the number is expected to rise. The major power supplier for North and South Carolina, Duke Energy, warned that up to three million customers across the two states could lose power. The authorities made last-ditch efforts to get everyone out of harm's way. In South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster said about 421,000 state residents had evacuated. But some hurricane holdouts who have never fled a storm were determined to stay. Read why they're staying put. President Trump on Thursday falsely accused Democrats of inflating the death toll from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico last year, rejecting a government assessment that the storm had claimed nearly 3,000 lives. Read more about the president's comments.

Mr. Trump also signaled on Twitter that he was tracking Florence's progress, writing: We are completely ready for hurricane Florence, as the storm gets even larger and more powerful. Be careful! Here's a look at how Florence is a formidable test for the president and FEMA. Brock Long, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said Thursday that the federal government had staged resources and personnel in states along the Eastern Seaboard to help quickly after the storm. FEMA personnel were focused at the moment on helping state and local authorities prepare, he said. But as the storm pushes through, the agency will shift its focus to identifying infrastructure damage and work to restore services. Though Florence has weakened to a Category 2 storm, Mr. Long said that storm surge and heavy rain still posed a significant danger. Residents still in their homes are running out of time to evacuate, he said.

The ocean will start rising along the coast and back bay areas, Mr. Long said. Your time to get out of the areas, out of the storm surge areas, is coming to a close. Another webcam further north on the North Carolina coast, is capturing the scene near the town of Pine Knoll shores. Still further north, along North Carolina's Outer Banks, webcams are showing the conditions at Cape Hatteras and Kitty Hawk. In South Carolina, webcams are capturing the coastline at Myrtle Beach and Kiawah Island.

There are other ways to follow the storm and its effects. Google has published a crisis map that showed traffic problems, evacuation zones and other alerts along with the cloud cover and the storm's location. CrowdSource Rescue, an organization that helped civilians rescue each other during Hurricane Harvey using mapping and other technology, also planned to publish rescue information on a map.


